Hey welcome back to the course in the last lecture we updated the model to account for the strawberry
premium.
Anna now your profits for this first location has you feeling really confident you think you can repeat
the success at multiple locations and you've been scoping out other locations and have found some great
options to open for more locations.
You even have customers asking you hey what are you going to open a stand closer to them.
So you want to expand but you are still a one person shop right now.
So if you're going to open new locations you're going to need to hire.
So he has to run the lemonade stands for you.
That way you can focus on growth and you can still handle the prep at the commissary kitchen but you're
going to need help running the stand.
So in order to update our model we can just only add four more locations.
We got to update it to account for an additional operating expense labor.
Now you can Tricare nephews nieces into free child labor to sell the lemonades for you.
So for simplicity we're just going to assume that you're going to be financing these new locations from
the profits that you saved up.
You're going to open a new location every two months until you get to five locations.
So how would the revenue look like for the first two years if we make this kind of uptick.
Let's see.
All right let's get ready to build the multiple locations financial model for our lemonade business.
Right.
So for this one we're going to build a model that handles 5 locations which means for each location
we're going to have to track our assumptions differently number than our first model.
We had something like this where we have the assumptions about the days the step we're selling the foot
traffic the stop percentage purchase percentage of the average Cupps for purchase.
Well those things might be different now depending on which location it is right.
Maybe some locations we can open more days or they have different traffic they have different stop percentages
things like just like when we were comparing the locations A B and C before to try to pick the right
location.
When we open new locations they may all have different attributes.
So we're going to have to keep track of them separately.
In addition to the location though is we're not going to open all at once.
Right.
So we will open the first location we're trying to use our own funding to open the next locations we
want to stagger the opening of the other locations maybe we want to learn a little bit and give her
selves time to ramp up and stabilize the previous location before we go on to the next one.
So we're going to add an additional assumption here called the startlement location one is going to
start in the first month but then we're going to start the other ones later.
So right now I'm just going to put in assumption here that we're going to start in months 3 5 7 9 for
the other locations basically every other month.
We're going to launch another location until we have all five locations launched.
Now the economics of the sales of the cups of the costs and the revenues per cup are going to be the
same right.
We saw the same assumptions here.
Now the percentage that buys the strawberry I'm going to leave it here for now and assume is the same
for all locations and when we're done with this exercise I'll leave it as a challenge for those of you
that want to try to make this assumption changeable for each location and then factor that into the
rest of the the model here.
Okay but that would be a challenge for those of you that want to try that.
So let's think about this now as we grow for multiple locations and we want to operate in multiple locations.
We have different assumptions for each location but we also need to make an additional assumption about
how it's going to operate.
Basically you can't be the person you can't be that Hendee or associate working.
All of those locations you might at work.
Most work one location.
But if you're going to be growing to multiple locations chances are you want to focus on growth and
doing the Manage your earlier work not working the specific locations.
So if you're not going to be working it then somebody else is going to be working there.
Right.
So what are you going to have to assume there.
You're going to have to assume that you're going to need to pay someone to work there.
Right.
So we still have the hours of operations which is the same as before or five hours per day.
But now we've got to pay an associate some sort of a wage rate and the hours of OPS is not enough.
You're also going to pay them for some additional setup per shift.
Maybe it takes them an hour to open another hour to break down.
Right so we're going to have two hours of additional labor hours per shift.
OK.
So now we have this we have this main set up structure.
We know what kind of assumptions we have here.
And then we know we are going to have multiple locations let's do the model for that location one Furse.
So for location 1 now everything pretty much looks exactly the same except for the gray stuff.
Those are the new things right.
The gray is what we're adding new now these assumptions are coming in from our main page here.
Okay.
Called combined revenues.
So all these assumptions around the price for a cup and you know hourly wage all that is coming from
the front so we're not changing so anything in blue means it's coming pulling from another page right
now the stuffing grades the stuff that we got to do.
All right.
So that's new right now.
Now here's the first part here is we want to we want to do something that shows when it's actually in
operation.
Right.
Because if if it's safe location 2 it comes in operation in my 3.
Then we wanted to start in month three and not in month one.
So right now for location 1 if I change this to 3 and then we go to the location one.
Here are the calculations.
This operation now creates a kind of a dummy variable that tells me when this is operating.
Okay.
So the way to do that is to use the months.
Because we're already telling us what month we want it to operate.
Right.
So what the formula is saying is if the month is greater than the start month minus one.
And the reason we do the minus one is if it starts in month 3 we want it to start in my free and not
calculate to month 4.
Right.
So what's greater than 3 minus 1 or 3 is greater than 3 minus 1 which is 2.
So it starts in month 3.
So let's look at that again.
If the month is greater then the starting month right now is three.
We're set at 2 3.
This can change.
But right now is 3.
If the month is greater than 3 minus 1 which is 2 then make it equal to one otherwise is zero.
OK so here's a very common formula that we're going to be using.
It's very popular for me.
It is called an IF formula right here.
Now IF formula starts with a logical test.
So my logical test is something that you that the you're trying to say is either true or false.
Is this true or false.
If it's true.
Put this in there.
Otherwise put that in the cell.
And that's what we're doing with this formula.
Right.
So we're saying is the month greater than the start month minus 1 if it is a 1 if it's not put a zero.
So when we have the start of at 3 then we say is three greater than three minus one.
Yes.
Put one.
No.
Here is start month two.
Greater than three minus one.
No.
2 is equal to two.
So then it's zero.
OK so when we have this dummy variable we can then do is for the day saying all right we're pulling
this from the front again.
How many days were selling for for each location.
So this one as we're setting it up for what we can do is we can make this roll here that day selling
times the operating cell here.
So if it's zero it's going to make it zero.
It's not going to come through.
But if it's one then the day's selling value from the front is going to come through.
So what that does is it basically creates a gate for whether the calculation is the important calculation
of days or selling whether it's active or not.
We'll actually calculate.
So we can set a gate for that.
And that way when ever it moves especially as it's more relevant for the other locations where there
are some 5 7 or 9 everything will automatically adjust because we adjusted these formulas here.
So I'm going to just grade this out too so we can know that that's been adjusted from what we were doing
before.
Now everything else here is the same.
There's really no change the only thing that we made it I made an adjustment to from what we did before
is a stylistic change that you may want to consider that you didn't introduce in the last two lectures
just to keep it simple.
Is it things that are expenses.
Make it a negative number and format it so that it's colored in red.
OK so what you can do is you can basically select the cells you want to format it a certain way select
the cells you've right click and go to format cells.
And when you do that it gives you some options if it's currency you quit currency and it gives you some
options how you want to display the negative numbers.
Does it do you want to display it with a negative sign or just read.
I like to do with both so it's super clear.
It's you know there's no question about it.
Right.
OK.
And it will it will do that but it will change it too with decimals so you can adjust that back if you
want.
OK.
That's the only difference right now.
So we have everything that looks the same but what do we got to do.
Now we got to calculate an additional cost right.
We have the hours and the wages for the location.
So let's do that right now the total set up hours is going to equal to the additional hours of setup
per chef.
Right.
Set up hours per shift.
Remember we did.
We can use the labeling to do that.
Times the total days in operation.
All right.
So that would be that one row four.
OK so we have that and then total selling hours is going to equal to the hours of operations per day
times the number of days selling as well.
Now we have the total hours that are worked right.
We have total set up hours plus the total hours actually behind a stand selling.
So we're going to do that in a copyright and we're going to pace that to see what it looks like.
OK so it looks like we're going to be doing paying about 28 hours of labor per month.
Now the total wages is going to be the total hours work times the Whurley wage rate which is in Cell
B 11.
So those are the total wages.
But again it's going to be an expense rate.
So we want to make this negative okay because we want to see it as a red and a negative number.
Okay.
So now we have that.
So now what do we have in terms of total cost of operations right which includes the cost of goods sold
for the lemonade and all the things that went into a cup of lemonade but you're also going to have to
pay the labor costs because you're not operating anymore so then now we have this as a total costs and
then what we have in terms of the profits it's going to be the total revenue plus the negative costs
of operation all of it.
So just make sure you get your signs right and then if you copy and paste that you have all of the profits
there.
So making that adjustment to a location is actually not that difficult when you think it through and
think about what you need to add.
Right.
So now now we have this single location model.
We have it able to adjust by the hour by the way when it's going to start.
Right.
And it can take its own assumptions around all of these key assumptions.
So what can we do now how do we do location's 2 3 4 5 what we're going to do something like this just
create another sheet with Kishan too.
Okay.
And we're just going to copy all of this control.
All of this copy all of this copy it into the other one.
Or you can just make a copy of the worksheet.
Another way is to do this.
You go move or make a copy.
You go create a copy move it somewhere where you can know where it's at right.
So now this is an exact copy that may be easier way to do that so let's just do that instead instead
of the first way.
So we have a copy here and let's make it four.
This is going to be for location location too.
OK.
So then how do we make it work for location's who Rhyno is an exact copy of vocation once everything
works the same way as location.
So the way we got to just that then is we've got to make the assumptions flow from location to assumptions
because right now is calling from here.
We need to call it from here.
OK.
So how do we do that we look at here.
This was calling from location 1 so we're going to call it from location to which is basically the next
column over k and then once we do that we got to make sure we copy that formula across.
OK.
So here the same thing.
We had an assumption there.
So we're going to make it from Column G.
And we're going to copy that and see that this is called calling from F.
We're just going to change it to G.
Now the answer is different.
This one is calling from half we're going to call it from G.
G.
And we're going to do the same for these two remaining two assumptions here.
So just make sure you changed all of the assumptions that are calling there if you kind of don't remember.
Look over here you have 2 4 6 things that needed to change right and we change six things we change
one here one here and then these other four here.
So now we have this.
And if you repeat the process by making copies and then changing those formulas but to call from these
different columns for each of the locations you're going to end up with something like this where you
have a separate page for each location and that's calling from the different assumptions for each of
the locations.
So now once you have this what you can do is then you can aggregate all of these calculations so you
can look at your entire business for as a combined entity right between all of those sent out.
This part here there's a summary here.
This is very straightforward to do.
So I'm not going to walk you through all of the little details of how to do this.
It's basically this entire PNL here but pulling from all the locations.
OK so if we look at monthly foot traffic going to have location 1 through 5 and I just pull from the
foot traffic rolls from each of the location then the stops do the same and do the same.
Right.
And when you can do that this way I can look at any location and see when we're starting right now.
OK location 1 2 starting month three.
This is starting month 5 7 9 and so forth.
And if I change some of these assumptions back to something this summary is going to change and it's
going to tell me what it looks like overall.
If I change my main assumptions.
Right.
And when you do the P.A. here what you can do is once you do it for all the locations for each other
line items that are relevant right.
So I have all the line items here all the things here and now what you can do is I can hide.
You can group the group those locations together and then where you can go.
Data says group if you go to the data work sheet and you go group and then you go grouped together then
you create this little tag here on the site.
There's a little bracket with a minus sign and what you can do is you click it.
You can hide it.
So now I can hide all those locations if I just want to look at the overall view.
Right.
Just Of all the locations combined.
Look at the individual location.
That I can do that.
I can just kind of do this accordion effect and hide everything.
So now I can look at this piano here this 12 months of sales information and look at what it looks like
for the first 24 months.
But if I did want to look at any particular location I can expand it and kind of dive into the there
without having to go into any particular worksheet.
So based on these assumptions we see that hey we're you know we're going to be making about a thousand
profit the first two months.
But then we add the second location we're going to go to 16:00.
We have a third location we get about 3000 at the fourth location which you know is the fourth locations
quite quite a bit of a jump because you know where there's a lot more traffic.
We're operating more days.
So it's going to be a bigger bump.
And then once we at the fifth location we jump a little bit more and then it looks like with five locations
we can expect to make a little over 7000 profits every month.
So there you go.
We went from a simple lemonade stand with one product to a lemonade stand with a premium add on to a
lemonade business with five lemonade stands and you can see how even though those assumptions are changes
of what you're trying to look at sounds really simple.
Executing it in modeling in Excel can look complicated if you don't have a structured way of thinking
about it and modeling it out.
So we're going to be doing a lot more of this now.
Don't worry if some of this is Fahs just pause go look at the formulas compare it compare the solution
with what you've done and then you know we're going to cover all of these topics again in greater detail
and you're going to have a lot more examples that are pulled from examples that are probably going to
be more relevant to you.